#labels Nodejs,Windows
#This is the download page for node.js for Windows (using Cygwin)

= Node.js download for Windows =

Taken from the [http://nodejs.org nodejs.org] website:

An example of a web server written in Node which responds with "Hello World" for every request.

{{{
var http = require('http');
http.createServer(function (req, res) {
  res.writeHead(200, {'Content-Type': 'text/plain'});
  res.end('Hello, World! from node.js\n');
}).listen(8124, "127.0.0.1");
console.log('Server running at http://127.0.0.1:8124/');
}}}

To run the server, put the code into a file example.js and execute it with the node program:
{{{
% node example.js
Server running at http://127.0.0.1:8124/
}}}

Node's goal is to provide an easy way to build scalable network programs. In the "hello world" web server example above, many client connections can be handled concurrently. 

Node.js is an event-based, async-io server framework allowing you to build efficient, scalable server programs using JavaScript. 

Event-based, async-io architectures are faster and more memory efficient then traditional threaded servers, it is the architecture behind today's best-of-class software in [http://wiki.nginx.org/Main Nginx], [http://redis.io/ Redis], [http://memcached.org/ Memcached], etc.

Powered by Google's V8 JavaScript engine, it marks a fresh start in web server development where for the first time developers are able to build highly-efficient end-to-end software completely in JavaScript.

For more information about this exciting technology check out:
  * [http://s3.amazonaws.com/four.livejournal/20091117/jsconf.pdf slides] from JSConf 2009
  * [http://nodejs.org/jsconf2010.pdf slides] from JSConf 2010
  * [http://www.yuiblog.com/blog/2010/05/20/video-dahl/ video] from a talk at Yahoo in May 2010
  * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/theater/video.php?v=crockford-loopage video] on Event Loops from JavaScript Guru Douglas Crockford


== Windows Download ==

Download latest release of Node v0.2.3 Stable (includes Cygwin):
  * [http://servicestack.googlecode.com/files/node-v0.2.3.zip node-v0.2.3.zip (32 bit)]

=== Useful Libraries ===

A lot of times your applications will need to have access to a data store, a very fast NoSQL data store that is popular to use with Node is Redis. 
A good tutorial to help you get started with Redis is: 
  * [http://howtonode.org/node-redis-fun]

Like node.js, Redis was built for unix operating systems but thanks to Cygwin it is also available to [http://code.google.com/p/servicestack/wiki/RedisWindowsDownload Download on Windows].