#labels Phase-QA
Latest release notes for the latest version of the c# [ServiceStackRedis ServiceStack.Redis client].

= Redis Client v1.14 Release Notes =
This release brings the client up to date with v1.3.9 of the redis-server with the following new operations included:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/redis/wiki/HincrbyCommand HINCRBY]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/redis/wiki/HmsetCommand HMSET]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/redis/wiki/HsetnxCommand HSETNX] (only available in redis trunk)
You can access these new operations with the IRedisClient using the latest [http://code.google.com/p/servicestack/wiki/RedisWindowsDownload Windows build of redis-server] (currently v1.3.9).

Richer Transaction support has been improved with the addition of the [IRedisTypedTransaction IRedisTypedTransaction<T>] which utilizes the [IRedisTypedClient] to provide transactions against strongly-typed POCO types. Examples can be found on the test page [http://code.google.com/p/servicestack/source/browse/trunk/Common/ServiceStack.Redis/ServiceStack.Redis.Tests/Generic/RedisTypedTransactionTests.cs RedisTypedTransactionTests.cs]


= Redis Client v1.09 Release Notes =

== Features ==
The biggest feature in this release is the addition of Redis Transactions. Almost every command in [IRedisClient] can now be queued and executed as part of an atomic Redis operation. For more info on how to use transactions visit [RedisTransactions].

== Other noteworthy features ==
 * Fixed some bugs and provided richer support for Redis Hashes including implementing a the .NET native generic `IDictionary<string,string>` interface.
 * Name changes for a couple SortedSet and Hash operations for better consistency and readability.

= Download =
The latest version of the open source c# redis client is available:
  * As a stand-alone dll - http://servicestack.googlecode.com/files/ServiceStack.Redis.dll
  * Or bundled inside the core Service Stack binaries - http://servicestack.googlecode.com/files/ServiceStack.zip

Download the stable and development release of the Redis Server Windows builds here:
http://code.google.com/p/servicestack/wiki/RedisWindowsDownload


= Older Release Notes =

== Redis Client v1.08 Release Notes ==

=== API compatibility ===
This version of the client includes support for the *Redis 1.3.7 API*. This includes support for all Sorted Sets and Hash operations.

=== Features ===
  * Included in the release is preliminary support for Transient Redis Message Queues.
  * Thread-safe load balanced `PooledRedisClientManager` and `BasicRedisClientManager` client managers, suitable to drop in any IOC.
      * Supports configuration of multiple read-write masters and read-only slave Redis server instances.

=== Breaking API changes: ===
  * Due to a change in the Redis 1.3.7 KEYS operation, `IRedisClient.AllKeys` and `IRedisClient.GetKeys()` now return a `List<string>`.